# Azure - Crate POC Meeting

## Participants

Silvano (Microsoft), Haudi, Ruslan, Claus, Nils and Johannes (Crate)

# Account
* don't know anything about this account
* [ ] Johannes will write an email to Peter and Jürgen.

# Setup
* Crate is Looping to provision the Cluster.
 * Microsoft will move this to a Azure Template.
 * Azure will then take care that everything is up and running.
 * The script will work with 100 nodes.
 * It won't with a 1000 nodes.
* They may probably translate cloud init into Docker extensions that a configured in the template file.
* [ ] Ruslan will send an email with a short description of the setup.
* We'll only use one etc node and one swarm master.

# Division of labor
* Silvano and Hatay are setting up the machines and the Docker Swarm.
* The Crate team is focusing on getting Crate running, inserting Data and running Benchmarks.
* Silvano starts working on the template file today.
* He may provide a demo cluster as soon as he's ready. Latest tomorrow.
* Crate only needs the swarm endpoints from this demo cluster and then we are able to connect to crate.
* [ ] we'll need the ports 8333 and 4200.

# Storage
* We'll need to find out how many worker nodes can saturate the account.
* A single storage account can hold up to 35 TB and run 5000 iops with up to 200 MB/s.
* We'll need something like one storage account for 50 Crate nodes.
* We want to scale up to one PB.
* For 1 PB we'd need 30 storage accounts but we're going for around 50 as we can't max out the storage to hold one PB.
* We'll attach two times 512 GB and one 256 GB disk to each node wich will give us the possibility to write 450 MB/s.
* DS4 machines are able to write 256 MB/s.
* So we have 3 mounted volumes.
* Crate can handle this.